---
title: "Job Opportunity: Software Developer (CLOSED)" 
---

## NO LONGER ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS

## About OpenAQ

In pursuit of a clean air future, [OpenAQ](https://openaq.org/) enables universal access to air quality data so that changemakers can build the case for clean air action. We aggregate and harmonize disparate air quality data from thousands of sources around the world and host the data on our first-of-its-kind free and open-source data platform. We connect users of this data across sectors and geographies to support an international learning environment.

Air pollution is the largest environmental threat to human health worldwide and disproportionately burdens people living in low- and middle-income countries and in marginalized communities. Air pollution is also both a cause and effect of climate change.

OpenAQ is a nonprofit U.S. organization, formally founded in 2018 in Washington, DC. Our team works remotely.

## Role

The Software Developer will support OpenAQ in a limited-duration (2-year) role supporting a data visualization project for [Breathe Cities](https://breathecities.org/), a global initiative that brings together data, communities and city decision-makers to cut urban air pollution. In partnership with the Clean Air Fund, OpenAQ will ensure that the vast amounts of data being generated by the cities participating in Breathe Cities is accessible and actionable to everyone. The project will bring all city data together in one place on an open data portal that has user-friendly tools that will enable anybody to understand and visualize the data in compelling and engaging ways, and will support the platform to be cloned and deployed on any local Breathe City and city government website.

The Software Developer will be a creative, product-minded partner, working with a nimble, mission-driven team at the intersection of data engineering, UI/UX design, and public good. This role is central to our iterative design process, responsible for taking ownership of the technical implementation, championing accessibility, and transforming user research into engaging, mission-driven applications.

This exempt, full-time, at-will, remote position reports to the OpenAQ Director of Technology. Depending on funding, there is potential for the position to continue after the conclusion of the Breathe Cities project.  

## Primary Duties:

### Application & Visualization Development

* Translate design concepts, wireframes, and user research into highly functional, responsive, and accessible web applications.  
* Develop and implement dynamic, high-impact data visualizations to translate complex air quality data into clear, understandable insights.  
* Build and maintain high-performance, interactive mapping applications to display global, location-based air quality data.

### Data & Systems Engineering

* Develop and support backend tools, APIs, and data processing pipelines to ingest, validate, and serve new air quality data sources.  
* Query the OpenAQ database to efficiently support new features and application performance.  
* Monitor and optimize application performance bottlenecks, from database queries to front-end rendering, to ensure a performant experience for users.

### Collaboration & Quality Assurance

* Provide technical expertise during design reviews and stakeholder meetings, offering insights on feasibility, implementation strategy, and technical tradeoffs.  
* Establish and maintain code quality, documentation, and robust testing practices to ensure application stability and maintainability through iterative development cycles.  
* Integrate feedback from designers, stakeholders, and user testing sessions directly into subsequent development sprints to iteratively refine and improve features.

## Job Qualifications

### Required Experience & Education

* You have at least 3 years of professional experience in full stack web development.  
* You have a bachelor’s degree or higher (this qualification can be met through other professional, educational, and lived experience).

## Required Skills, Abilities & Qualities

* Strong JavaScript/TypeScript skills.  
* Experience working with modern JavaScript frameworks (React, Vue, SolidJS), with flexibility to work in new frameworks as needed.  
* Experience developing data visualizations using d3.js and other JavaScript-based libraries.  
* Experience developing interactive maps using libraries like MapboxGL, MapLibreGL, OpenLayers, etc.  
* Experience working with relational databases and SQL (we use PostgreSQL).  
* You are able to manage multiple projects while keeping a “big picture” strategic view.   
* You are accountable and take pride in delivering work products on time.  
* You enjoy working collaboratively and have a positive, flexible attitude when working with a team.  
* You care deeply about improving global air quality and ensuring equal access to clean air. You have a passion for OpenAQ’s and Breathe Cities’ mission.  
* You understand the concepts of institutional and structural racism and bias and are committed to advancing equity, diversity, and inclusion.  
* You are excited about the opportunity to work at a fast-paced nonprofit.

### Desirable

* Experience with other programming languages (especially R and/or Python).  
* Experience working with air quality or other scientific data.  
* Experience working in a non-profit setting with a mission-driven staff and board.   
* Past work on international issues and/or in cross-cultural settings.

## Other Requirements

Work Authorization: You have the legal right to work in the U.S. 

Travel: This position does not require travel, though you may attend conferences and retreats upon occasion.

Work Schedule: This role allows you to work on your own schedule, with the understanding that you will occasionally need to be available at odd hours given that we work remotely and with people around the world. This role may occasionally require excess hours in order to achieve deliverables.

## Compensation, Benefits & Intangibles

OpenAQ offers competitive compensation and benefits, including a 401k and generous company matching plan, health reimbursement plan, family-friendly policies, and unlimited PTO. The starting salary range is $100,000-$110,000. We are a small, but mighty, team of thought-partners that takes pride in our work and values lightheartedness and camaraderie. 

## To Apply

Please [fill out this short form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSe8lN17c6KyYmaQLMVvZbTx7GP88v6PYdiDFEC2wyvMfGGFUg/viewform) AND submit a cover letter and resume separately to <a href="mailto:jobs@openaq.org">jobs@openaq.org</a>. Title your email “Software Developer-Your Name.” We will begin reviewing applications December 1, 2025, and the position will be open until filled.

### Equal Opportunity Employment

OpenAQ is an equal opportunity employer. We do not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability, age, veteran status, or any other basis prohibited by law.
